---
title: "Twelve at 35: an annual review"
excerpt: "Twelve things I learned during my 35th year on Earth."
---
Being so close to the holidays and start of the new year, my mid-December birthday always welcomes reflection on the calendar year as a whole. 

Now that I'm reaching its end, 2022 feels much calmer and steader than the two years prior. The pandemic, a new job, and major cultural and political developments gave 2020 the rhythm of living in the eye, and sometimes the fabric of, a hurricane. Made to wear the hand-me-downs of its older brother, 2021 felt much the same.

What makes this year different isn't its overall rhythm, but the way it was interrupted.

My 2022 is all about a pivot I made, inspired by the health consequences I was (eventually going to be) experiencing. It was the backdrop of a recovery journey on which I've been for a while now. The journey took me to the south of Europe, where, gazing out across the hysterically beautiful, lavender-colored valleys of the Algarve, I underwent in-patient treatment for an ongoing eating disorder at Human Concern's treatment center. [[Be-Leef|Read more about how it helped me]].

Here are twelve things I learned there, and here at home, during my 35th year on Earth. 

### I finally found a way to connect with that [[Deep knowing|intuition]] everybody has been raving about.
I spent my time in the Algarve rigorously slowing and simmering down. Without the usual distractions of home life, work, social engagements, city activities, and the general rush of life (much of which I often employ to avoid what's difficult for me), I learned to listen to what I deeply know to be true. At the time, it felt like the most natural thing in the world, yet looking back I see how special it is to care, fully and firsly, about myself and my needs. Entering into that conversation helped me feel what effect life has on me, what happens in the space between. I'm reminded about all of this each time I practice [[Yin yoga]], in which the space in between poses, the *rebound*, is of vital importance.


### Blind faith in health care is a privilege
There's a [[Eating disorder|place in the South of Portugal]] where, for a number of weeks in 2022, I felt 100% safe, inspired, at home, calm, hopeful, and daring. While I was undergoing voluntary in-patient treatment, being in that clinic, surrounded by those clients and therapists, that environment, those scents, flavors, and textures, it felt like the most natural, obvious thing in the world I frequently found myself imagining that what I was feeling must be what being in the womb is like. Coming back to the Netherlands, I see such stellar healthcare isn't available for everyone.  

### The design flaw that neurodiversity isn't
- Playing the [[piano]] is akin to meditation for me.
- Give me a box of tangram and for the next few hours you won't even know I'm here.

### It may be valuable to jumpstart a connection by oversharing, but usually not. 
- For a large part, 2022 has been the backdrop of my recovery journey. I went for voluntary in-patient treatment in October, together with nine other individuals, each with their own struggles and hopes. It was truly marvelous to connect with them so deeply, to the point where we barely need a word to understand that the other might not be doing well. 
- I prefer snail mail over digital communication. The finest snail mail is made up of free postcards collected from restroom card displays, museums, and supermarkets.
- The easiest way to make a friend is by pacing yourself. 

### Stories with which I surround myself
- I continue reading about a novel, film or television series after I've finished it, to extend my stay in the story world.
- Life is calm when I don't have to read. I dreaded having to spend [[Eating disorder|six weeks]] without an assortment of bibles, and I didn't miss a single one of them.

### Food is cool, but I must chill
- [[Leek frisbees]] are an excellent treatment of leek.
- When I'm not spending [[Eating disorder|seven hours to prepare a weeknight dish]], it turns out there is so much more to life

### Dogs aren't so bad after all


### At heart, I'm a researcher
One of the main aspects of my professional career has been knowledge work, and while I love nursing the skillset required for that work, I did discover this year that Product Management is not the path for me.

### Eventually we become our own perpetrators. It's a [[health]] hazard.

### deze


### deze


### deze