---
title: "The dog"
date: 2022-12-06
tags:
- 
---
In my social circle, I'm known to despise dogs if they are not a corgi. My reasons are infinitely complex. I despise dogs so much, in fact, that I think differently of people who love them. 

My friend Annelie is one of those people. I've been writing her wedding speech in my head (she's not getting married any time soon):

> Annelie Wambeek, whose only character flaw is that she's a dog person

Half a decade ago in the south of Portugal, a stray puppy found its way to the gates of an eating disorder clinic. One of the clients at the time fell in love with him and she brought him back home to the Netherlands. She named him Gypsy. 

The client made such a beautiful recovery she was eventually able to join the clinic staff as a hostess, accompanying each group of clients on their journey, bringing Gypsy as her companion. 

That's how Gypsy and I met: last autumn during my stay at the clinic. 

Now, Gypsy is a stray, and as with any stray, you never really know what happened before they found you. What we did know, was that Gypsy was traumatized by a flight down to Portugal. Tried to break out of a crate, blood everywhere, it was a disaster on the plane. He hasn't been able to feel 100% safe and comfortable since. 

During our stay in Portugal, we learned another thing: Gypsy has a thing against a particular type of person. 

At first they thought it was old people. There was a nurse on staff that he couldn't be around, as well as one of the Dutch therapists who would fly in for a week. 

Then there wa the horse therapist: a confident-looking guy who - an eye condition to blame - wore his sunglasses almost everywhere he went. 

Then it was the chef, a personable London transplant who DJed UK garage in the 90s. And then the old Portuguese man with the cane minding his business on the sidewalk. 