---
excerpt: "Notes on turning 35"
---
35 things I learned during this year of my life, in no particular order.

1. Found a way to connect with that [[Deep knowing|intuition]] everybody's been raving about 
2. I'm a fan of the [[Yin yoga]] concept of the rebound
3. The easiest way to make a friend is by pacing yourself. 
4. Eventually we become our own perpetrators. It's a [[health]] hazard.
5. There's a [[Eating disorder|place in the South of Portugal]] where, for a snowflake of time, I felt 100% safe, inspired, at home, calm, hopeful, and daring.
6. I continue reading about a novel, film or television series after I've finished it, to extend my stay in the story world.
7. I got over my aversion to *some* dogs.
8. I prefer snail mail over digital communication. The finest snail mail is made up of free postcards collected from restroom card displays, museums, and supermarkets.
9. Flowers are kept best when provided with fresh water every day. It's a chore, but if you pretend you're [Yolanda Hadid](https://letmegooglethat.com/?q=Yolanda+Hadid+flowers), everything about life is better.
10. Life is calm when I don't have to read. I dreaded having to spend [[Eating disorder|six weeks]] without an assortment of bibles, and I didn't miss a single one of them.
11. One of the main aspects of my professional career has been knowledge work, and while I love nursing the skillset required for that work, I did discover this year that Product Management is not the path for me.
12. Give me a box of tangram and for the next few hours you won't even know I'm here.
13. [[Leek frisbees]] are an excellent treatment of leek.
14. When I'm not spending [[Eating disorder|seven hours to prepare a weeknight dish]], it turns out there is so much more to life.
15. 
